README.md, before:

# Telegram Group Media → Google Photos Sync Bot

A Telegram bot that automatically syncs media (photos, videos, circular/quick videos) from group chats to Google Photos. Each group gets its own album named after the group.

## Features

- Syncs photos, videos, and circular video notes from Telegram groups to Google Photos
- Each group gets a dedicated album named after the group
- Deduplication — never processes the same message twice
- Automatic album management when a group is renamed (new album for new name)
- Retry with exponential backoff on transient failures (network, API rate limits)
- File size validation against Google Photos upload limits before downloading
- Graceful handling of bot removal from groups
- Optional allowlist to restrict which groups are synced
- Local Bot API server support for files larger than 20 MB

## Stack

| Layer | Choice | Rationale |
|-------|--------|-----------|
| Language | Python 3.12+ | Mature Telegram & Google API libraries, async-native |
| Telegram SDK | `python-telegram-bot` v21+ | Async, actively maintained, full Bot API coverage |
| Google Photos | `google-auth` + REST API | Google Photos Library API via HTTP (no official Python SDK for Photos) |
| HTTP Client | `httpx` | Async HTTP for Google API calls and media downloads |
| Persistence | SQLite via `aiosqlite` | Lightweight state tracking (processed messages, album IDs) |
| Deployment | Docker + Docker Compose | Single-command deployment, env-based configuration |

## Architecture

```
┌─────────────────────┐      ┌──────────────────┐      ┌─────────────────┐
│   Telegram Groups   │─────▶│   Bot Service    │─────▶│  Google Photos   │
│  (photos/videos)    │      │                  │      │  (albums/media)  │
└─────────────────────┘      │  ┌────────────┐  │      └─────────────────┘
                             │  │  SQLite DB │  │
                             │  │ (state)    │  │
                             │  └────────────┘  │
                             └──────────────────┘
```

### How It Works

1. Bot is added to a Telegram group
2. A user sends a photo, video, or circular video in the group
3. Bot detects the media message via handler
4. Bot checks SQLite to skip already-processed messages
5. Bot downloads the media file from Telegram (with retry on failure)
6. Bot looks up (or creates) a Google Photos album named after the group
7. Bot uploads the media to that album (with retry on 429/5xx)
8. Bot records the message ID in SQLite to prevent future duplicates

## Prerequisites

- **Docker** and **Docker Compose** (for production deployment)
- **Python 3.12+** (only needed for the one-time token setup scripts)
- A **Google Cloud** project with the Photos Library API enabled
- A **Telegram bot** created via [@BotFather](https://t.me/BotFather)
- **Telegram API credentials** from [my.telegram.org](https://my.telegram.org) (required for the local Bot API server)

## Quick Start

```bash
# 1. Clone and configure
git clone <repo-url> && cd telegramPhotos
cp .env.example .env
# Edit .env — fill in all required variables (see setup guides below)

# 2. Obtain Google OAuth refresh token (one-time, on your machine)
python3 -m venv .venv && source .venv/bin/activate
pip install -r requirements.txt
python scripts/obtain_token.py
# Copy the printed GOOGLE_REFRESH_TOKEN into .env

# 3. Log out from official API (one-time, before using local Bot API server)
python scripts/logout_from_telegram_org.py

# 4. Deploy
docker compose up -d

# 5. Add the bot to your Telegram group(s)
# The bot will automatically sync new media to Google Photos
```

## Setup Guides

### 1. Google Cloud Project

The Google Photos Library API requires OAuth 2.0 **user credentials** (not a service account). You need to create a Google Cloud project, enable the API, and obtain a refresh token.

#### Create project and enable API

1. Go to [Google Cloud Console](https://console.cloud.google.com/)
2. Click **Select a project** → **New Project**, give it a name, and create it
3. Make sure the new project is selected in the top bar
4. Go to **APIs & Services** → **Library**
5. Search for **Photos Library API** and click **Enable**

#### Configure OAuth consent screen

1. Go to **APIs & Services** → **OAuth consent screen**
2. Select **External** user type (unless you have a Google Workspace org) and click **Create**
3. Fill in the required fields:
   - **App name**: any name (e.g., "Telegram Photos Bot")
   - **User support email**: your email
   - **Developer contact**: your email
4. Click **Save and Continue**
5. On the **Scopes** page, click **Add or Remove Scopes** and add:
   - `https://www.googleapis.com/auth/photoslibrary.appendonly`
   - `https://www.googleapis.com/auth/photoslibrary.readonly.appcreateddata`
6. Click **Save and Continue** through the remaining steps
7. On the **Test users** page, add the Google account that owns the Photos library you want to sync to

> **Note:** While the app is in "Testing" publishing status, only test users you explicitly add can authorize. The refresh token works indefinitely for test users — no need to publish the app.

#### Create OAuth credentials

1. Go to **APIs & Services** → **Credentials**
2. Click **Create Credentials** → **OAuth client ID**
3. Application type: **Desktop app**
4. Give it a name and click **Create**
5. Copy the **Client ID** and **Client Secret** — add them to your `.env` file as `GOOGLE_CLIENT_ID` and `GOOGLE_CLIENT_SECRET`

#### Obtain refresh token

Run the setup script on a machine with a browser:

```bash
source .venv/bin/activate
python scripts/obtain_token.py
```

The script opens a browser for Google sign-in. After authorizing, it prints a refresh token. Copy it into your `.env` file as `GOOGLE_REFRESH_TOKEN`.

You can also pass credentials as arguments instead of environment variables:

```bash
python scripts/obtain_token.py --client-id YOUR_ID --client-secret YOUR_SECRET
```

### 2. Telegram Bot

#### Create the bot

1. Open Telegram and message [@BotFather](https://t.me/BotFather)
2. Send `/newbot` and follow the prompts to name your bot
3. BotFather responds with a **bot token** — copy it into `.env` as `TELEGRAM_BOT_TOKEN`

#### Configure privacy mode

By default, bots in groups only receive messages that are commands or mention the bot. To see all media messages, you need **one** of:

- **Disable privacy mode**: message BotFather → `/setprivacy` → select your bot → **Disable**
- **Grant admin rights**: add the bot as a group admin (this automatically bypasses privacy mode)

#### Get Telegram API credentials (required for local Bot API server)

1. Go to [my.telegram.org](https://my.telegram.org) and log in with your Telegram account
2. Navigate to **API development tools**
3. Create an application (if you haven't already) — the app name/description don't matter
4. Copy **API ID** and **API Hash** into `.env` as `TELEGRAM_API_ID` and `TELEGRAM_API_HASH`

#### Finding group IDs

To restrict syncing to specific groups via `ALLOWED_GROUP_IDS`, you need the numeric chat IDs. The easiest methods:

- **From bot logs**: start the bot without `ALLOWED_GROUP_IDS`, send a photo in the group, and check the logs — the chat_id is logged with each synced message
- **Via @userinfobot**: add [@userinfobot](https://t.me/userinfobot) to the group, and it will report the group's chat ID

Group IDs are negative numbers (e.g., `-1001234567890`).

### 3. Configuration Reference

All configuration is via environment variables (set in `.env`):

| Variable | Required | Default | Description |
|----------|----------|---------|-------------|
| `TELEGRAM_BOT_TOKEN` | Yes | — | Bot token from [@BotFather](https://t.me/BotFather) |
| `TELEGRAM_API_ID` | Yes (Docker) | — | API ID from [my.telegram.org](https://my.telegram.org) — used by the local Bot API server |
| `TELEGRAM_API_HASH` | Yes (Docker) | — | API hash from [my.telegram.org](https://my.telegram.org) — used by the local Bot API server |
| `TELEGRAM_BOT_API_URL` | No | `http://telegram-bot-api:8081` | Local Bot API base URL. Set empty to use official API only (20 MB limit). |
| `GOOGLE_CLIENT_ID` | Yes | — | OAuth 2.0 client ID from Google Cloud Console |
| `GOOGLE_CLIENT_SECRET` | Yes | — | OAuth 2.0 client secret |
| `GOOGLE_REFRESH_TOKEN` | Yes | — | Long-lived refresh token (obtained via `scripts/obtain_token.py`) |
| `ALLOWED_GROUP_IDS` | No | *(all groups)* | Comma-separated list of group chat IDs to restrict syncing |
| `DB_PATH` | No | `/data/bot.db` | SQLite database file path |
| `LOG_LEVEL` | No | `INFO` | Logging level: `DEBUG`, `INFO`, `WARNING`, `ERROR`, `CRITICAL` |

## Deployment

### Docker Compose (recommended)

The default `docker-compose.yml` runs two services:

- **telegram-bot-api** — a local Telegram Bot API server that removes the 20 MB download limit
- **bot** — the Python bot service

```bash
# Start in background
docker compose up -d

# View logs
docker compose logs -f bot

# Stop
docker compose down

# Rebuild after code changes
docker compose up -d --build
```

#### Data persistence

Two named Docker volumes are used:

| Volume | Purpose |
|--------|---------|
| `bot-data` | SQLite database (processed messages, album cache) — mounted at `/data` |
| `telegram-bot-api-data` | Local Bot API server state — shared read-only with the bot for local file access |

To back up the database:

```bash
docker compose cp bot:/data/bot.db ./bot.db.backup
```

#### Log out from official API (one-time)

Before the local Bot API server can receive updates, the bot must be logged out from the official `api.telegram.org`:

```bash
source .venv/bin/activate
python scripts/logout_from_telegram_org.py
```

This only needs to be done once per bot token. After logout, the bot receives updates exclusively from your local server.

> **Important:** After logging out, the bot will not work with the official API for ~10 minutes. Plan accordingly.

### Official API only (no local server)

If you don't need files larger than 20 MB, you can skip the local Bot API server entirely:

1. Set `TELEGRAM_BOT_API_URL=` (empty value) in `.env`
2. **Do not** run `logout_from_telegram_org.py`
3. Run only the bot service:

```bash
docker compose up -d bot
```

Or run directly with Python:

```bash
source .venv/bin/activate
python -m bot.main
```

### Local development

For development, run the local Bot API server in Docker and the bot on your host:

1. Set `TELEGRAM_BOT_API_URL=http://localhost:8081` in `.env`
2. Start the API server:

```bash
docker compose up -d telegram-bot-api
```

3. Run the bot:

```bash
source .venv/bin/activate
python -m bot.main
```

## Running Tests

```bash
source .venv/bin/activate
pip install -r requirements.txt

# Run all tests
python -m pytest tests/ -v

# Run a specific test file
python -m pytest tests/test_handlers.py -v

# Run with short output
python -m pytest tests/
```

Tests use an in-memory SQLite database and mock all external services (Telegram API, Google Photos API). No credentials or network access needed.

## Project Structure

```
telegramPhotos/
├── bot/
│   ├── __init__.py
│   ├── main.py              # Entry point, bot initialization
│   ├── config.py            # Environment variable loading & validation
│   ├── handlers.py          # Telegram message handlers (media sync, bot removal)
│   ├── media.py             # Media download with retry and size validation
│   ├── google_photos.py     # Google Photos API client (auth, albums, uploads, retry)
│   └── database.py          # SQLite operations (dedup, album cache, title tracking)
├── scripts/
│   ├── obtain_token.py      # One-time: get Google OAuth refresh token
│   └── logout_from_telegram_org.py  # One-time: move bot to local API server
├── tests/
│   ├── __init__.py
│   ├── conftest.py           # Shared test fixtures
│   ├── test_database.py
│   ├── test_google_photos.py
│   ├── test_handlers.py
│   └── test_media.py
├── pytest.ini
├── Dockerfile
├── docker-compose.yml
├── requirements.txt
├── .env.example
├── .gitignore
└── README.md
```

## Troubleshooting

### Bot doesn't respond to media in the group

- **Privacy mode**: make sure privacy mode is disabled (`/setprivacy` → Disabled in BotFather) or the bot has admin rights in the group.
- **Allowed groups**: if `ALLOWED_GROUP_IDS` is set, verify the group's chat ID is in the list.
- **Logs**: check `docker compose logs -f bot` for errors.

### "File too large" warnings in logs

The bot validates file sizes before download. Google Photos limits: **200 MB** for photos, **10 GB** for videos. Files exceeding these limits are skipped with a warning.

If you're hitting Telegram's 20 MB download limit, make sure the local Bot API server is running and the bot is logged out from the official API.

### Google Photos upload fails with 429

The Google Photos Library API has rate limits. The bot automatically retries with exponential backoff (starting at 30 seconds, up to 4 attempts). If uploads consistently fail:

- Check that your Google Cloud project hasn't exceeded its quota (Cloud Console → APIs & Services → Photos Library API → Quotas)
- Reduce the volume of media being sent in groups, or add a delay between messages

### "Configuration error" on startup

The bot validates all required environment variables at startup. Check that `.env` contains non-empty values for:

- `TELEGRAM_BOT_TOKEN`
- `GOOGLE_CLIENT_ID`
- `GOOGLE_CLIENT_SECRET`
- `GOOGLE_REFRESH_TOKEN`

### Token refresh fails

If the Google refresh token stops working:

1. Verify the Google Cloud project still exists and the Photos Library API is enabled
2. Check that your Google account is still listed as a test user (if the app is in "Testing" status)
3. Re-run `python scripts/obtain_token.py` to get a new refresh token

### Bot API server: "bot logged out" issues

After running `logout_from_telegram_org.py`, wait ~10 minutes before switching back to the official API. If you need to switch:

1. Stop the local Bot API server
2. Set `TELEGRAM_BOT_API_URL=` in `.env`
3. Wait 10 minutes
4. Restart the bot — it will use the official API

### Group renamed — old album stays

When a group is renamed, the bot creates a new album with the new name. Previously synced media remains in the old album. This is by design — the Google Photos Library API (with `appendonly` scope) does not support renaming albums.

## License

MIT

Commit message:

feat: add /link command and document album sharing limitation
- Add get_album_product_url() to Google Photos client
- Add /link command handler: returns album URL in group chat
- Register link_command_handler in main
- Tests for handle_link_command and get_album_product_url
- README: Bot Commands section, sharing albums troubleshooting

Made-with: Cursor

README.md, after:

# Telegram Group Media → Google Photos Sync Bot

A Telegram bot that automatically syncs media (photos, videos, circular/quick videos) from group chats to Google Photos. Each group gets its own album named after the group.

## Features

- Syncs photos, videos, and circular video notes from Telegram groups to Google Photos
- Each group gets a dedicated album named after the group
- Deduplication — never processes the same message twice
- Automatic album management when a group is renamed (new album for new name)
- Retry with exponential backoff on transient failures (network, API rate limits)
- File size validation against Google Photos upload limits before downloading
- Graceful handling of bot removal from groups
- `/link` command — get the Google Photos album URL for a group to share with others
- Optional allowlist to restrict which groups are synced
- Local Bot API server support for files larger than 20 MB

## Stack

| Layer | Choice | Rationale |
|-------|--------|-----------|
| Language | Python 3.12+ | Mature Telegram & Google API libraries, async-native |
| Telegram SDK | `python-telegram-bot` v21+ | Async, actively maintained, full Bot API coverage |
| Google Photos | `google-auth` + REST API | Google Photos Library API via HTTP (no official Python SDK for Photos) |
| HTTP Client | `httpx` | Async HTTP for Google API calls and media downloads |
| Persistence | SQLite via `aiosqlite` | Lightweight state tracking (processed messages, album IDs) |
| Deployment | Docker + Docker Compose | Single-command deployment, env-based configuration |

## Architecture

```
┌─────────────────────┐      ┌──────────────────┐      ┌─────────────────┐
│   Telegram Groups   │─────▶│   Bot Service    │─────▶│  Google Photos   │
│  (photos/videos)    │      │                  │      │  (albums/media)  │
└─────────────────────┘      │  ┌────────────┐  │      └─────────────────┘
                             │  │  SQLite DB │  │
                             │  │ (state)    │  │
                             │  └────────────┘  │
                             └──────────────────┘
```

### How It Works

1. Bot is added to a Telegram group
2. A user sends a photo, video, or circular video in the group
3. Bot detects the media message via handler
4. Bot checks SQLite to skip already-processed messages
5. Bot downloads the media file from Telegram (with retry on failure)
6. Bot looks up (or creates) a Google Photos album named after the group
7. Bot uploads the media to that album (with retry on 429/5xx)
8. Bot records the message ID in SQLite to prevent future duplicates

### Bot Commands

| Command | Where | Description |
|---------|-------|-------------|
| `/link` | Group chat | Replies with the Google Photos album URL for the group. Open the link in the browser (you must be signed into the Google account that owns the album) and use the Google Photos **Share** button to share the album with others. |

> **Sharing limitation:** Google removed the Photos Library API sharing endpoints in March 2025. The bot cannot share albums programmatically — you must share them manually through the Google Photos UI after opening the `/link` URL. See [Sharing albums](#sharing-albums) in Troubleshooting for details.

## Prerequisites

- **Docker** and **Docker Compose** (for production deployment)
- **Python 3.12+** (only needed for the one-time token setup scripts)
- A **Google Cloud** project with the Photos Library API enabled
- A **Telegram bot** created via [@BotFather](https://t.me/BotFather)
- **Telegram API credentials** from [my.telegram.org](https://my.telegram.org) (required for the local Bot API server)

## Quick Start

```bash
# 1. Clone and configure
git clone <repo-url> && cd telegramPhotos
cp .env.example .env
# Edit .env — fill in all required variables (see setup guides below)

# 2. Obtain Google OAuth refresh token (one-time, on your machine)
python3 -m venv .venv && source .venv/bin/activate
pip install -r requirements.txt
python scripts/obtain_token.py
# Copy the printed GOOGLE_REFRESH_TOKEN into .env

# 3. Log out from official API (one-time, before using local Bot API server)
python scripts/logout_from_telegram_org.py

# 4. Deploy
docker compose up -d

# 5. Add the bot to your Telegram group(s)
# The bot will automatically sync new media to Google Photos
```

## Setup Guides

### 1. Google Cloud Project

The Google Photos Library API requires OAuth 2.0 **user credentials** (not a service account). You need to create a Google Cloud project, enable the API, and obtain a refresh token.

#### Create project and enable API

1. Go to [Google Cloud Console](https://console.cloud.google.com/)
2. Click **Select a project** → **New Project**, give it a name, and create it
3. Make sure the new project is selected in the top bar
4. Go to **APIs & Services** → **Library**
5. Search for **Photos Library API** and click **Enable**

#### Configure OAuth consent screen

1. Go to **APIs & Services** → **OAuth consent screen**
2. Select **External** user type (unless you have a Google Workspace org) and click **Create**
3. Fill in the required fields:
   - **App name**: any name (e.g., "Telegram Photos Bot")
   - **User support email**: your email
   - **Developer contact**: your email
4. Click **Save and Continue**
5. On the **Scopes** page, click **Add or Remove Scopes** and add:
   - `https://www.googleapis.com/auth/photoslibrary.appendonly`
   - `https://www.googleapis.com/auth/photoslibrary.readonly.appcreateddata`
6. Click **Save and Continue** through the remaining steps
7. On the **Test users** page, add the Google account that owns the Photos library you want to sync to

> **Note:** While the app is in "Testing" publishing status, only test users you explicitly add can authorize. The refresh token works indefinitely for test users — no need to publish the app.

#### Create OAuth credentials

1. Go to **APIs & Services** → **Credentials**
2. Click **Create Credentials** → **OAuth client ID**
3. Application type: **Desktop app**
4. Give it a name and click **Create**
5. Copy the **Client ID** and **Client Secret** — add them to your `.env` file as `GOOGLE_CLIENT_ID` and `GOOGLE_CLIENT_SECRET`

#### Obtain refresh token

Run the setup script on a machine with a browser:

```bash
source .venv/bin/activate
python scripts/obtain_token.py
```

The script opens a browser for Google sign-in. After authorizing, it prints a refresh token. Copy it into your `.env` file as `GOOGLE_REFRESH_TOKEN`.

You can also pass credentials as arguments instead of environment variables:

```bash
python scripts/obtain_token.py --client-id YOUR_ID --client-secret YOUR_SECRET
```

### 2. Telegram Bot

#### Create the bot

1. Open Telegram and message [@BotFather](https://t.me/BotFather)
2. Send `/newbot` and follow the prompts to name your bot
3. BotFather responds with a **bot token** — copy it into `.env` as `TELEGRAM_BOT_TOKEN`

#### Configure privacy mode

By default, bots in groups only receive messages that are commands or mention the bot. To see all media messages, you need **one** of:

- **Disable privacy mode**: message BotFather → `/setprivacy` → select your bot → **Disable**
- **Grant admin rights**: add the bot as a group admin (this automatically bypasses privacy mode)

#### Get Telegram API credentials (required for local Bot API server)

1. Go to [my.telegram.org](https://my.telegram.org) and log in with your Telegram account
2. Navigate to **API development tools**
3. Create an application (if you haven't already) — the app name/description don't matter
4. Copy **API ID** and **API Hash** into `.env` as `TELEGRAM_API_ID` and `TELEGRAM_API_HASH`

#### Finding group IDs

To restrict syncing to specific groups via `ALLOWED_GROUP_IDS`, you need the numeric chat IDs. The easiest methods:

- **From bot logs**: start the bot without `ALLOWED_GROUP_IDS`, send a photo in the group, and check the logs — the chat_id is logged with each synced message
- **Via @userinfobot**: add [@userinfobot](https://t.me/userinfobot) to the group, and it will report the group's chat ID

Group IDs are negative numbers (e.g., `-1001234567890`).

### 3. Configuration Reference

All configuration is via environment variables (set in `.env`):

| Variable | Required | Default | Description |
|----------|----------|---------|-------------|
| `TELEGRAM_BOT_TOKEN` | Yes | — | Bot token from [@BotFather](https://t.me/BotFather) |
| `TELEGRAM_API_ID` | Yes (Docker) | — | API ID from [my.telegram.org](https://my.telegram.org) — used by the local Bot API server |
| `TELEGRAM_API_HASH` | Yes (Docker) | — | API hash from [my.telegram.org](https://my.telegram.org) — used by the local Bot API server |
| `TELEGRAM_BOT_API_URL` | No | `http://telegram-bot-api:8081` | Local Bot API base URL. Set empty to use official API only (20 MB limit). |
| `GOOGLE_CLIENT_ID` | Yes | — | OAuth 2.0 client ID from Google Cloud Console |
| `GOOGLE_CLIENT_SECRET` | Yes | — | OAuth 2.0 client secret |
| `GOOGLE_REFRESH_TOKEN` | Yes | — | Long-lived refresh token (obtained via `scripts/obtain_token.py`) |
| `ALLOWED_GROUP_IDS` | No | *(all groups)* | Comma-separated list of group chat IDs to restrict syncing |
| `DB_PATH` | No | `/data/bot.db` | SQLite database file path |
| `LOG_LEVEL` | No | `INFO` | Logging level: `DEBUG`, `INFO`, `WARNING`, `ERROR`, `CRITICAL` |

## Deployment

### Docker Compose (recommended)

The default `docker-compose.yml` runs two services:

- **telegram-bot-api** — a local Telegram Bot API server that removes the 20 MB download limit
- **bot** — the Python bot service

```bash
# Start in background
docker compose up -d

# View logs
docker compose logs -f bot

# Stop
docker compose down

# Rebuild after code changes
docker compose up -d --build
```

#### Data persistence

Two named Docker volumes are used:

| Volume | Purpose |
|--------|---------|
| `bot-data` | SQLite database (processed messages, album cache) — mounted at `/data` |
| `telegram-bot-api-data` | Local Bot API server state — shared read-only with the bot for local file access |

To back up the database:

```bash
docker compose cp bot:/data/bot.db ./bot.db.backup
```

#### Log out from official API (one-time)

Before the local Bot API server can receive updates, the bot must be logged out from the official `api.telegram.org`:

```bash
source .venv/bin/activate
python scripts/logout_from_telegram_org.py
```

This only needs to be done once per bot token. After logout, the bot receives updates exclusively from your local server.

> **Important:** After logging out, the bot will not work with the official API for ~10 minutes. Plan accordingly.

### Official API only (no local server)

If you don't need files larger than 20 MB, you can skip the local Bot API server entirely:

1. Set `TELEGRAM_BOT_API_URL=` (empty value) in `.env`
2. **Do not** run `logout_from_telegram_org.py`
3. Run only the bot service:

```bash
docker compose up -d bot
```

Or run directly with Python:

```bash
source .venv/bin/activate
python -m bot.main
```

### Local development

For development, run the local Bot API server in Docker and the bot on your host:

1. Set `TELEGRAM_BOT_API_URL=http://localhost:8081` in `.env`
2. Start the API server:

```bash
docker compose up -d telegram-bot-api
```

3. Run the bot:

```bash
source .venv/bin/activate
python -m bot.main
```

## Running Tests

```bash
source .venv/bin/activate
pip install -r requirements.txt

# Run all tests
python -m pytest tests/ -v

# Run a specific test file
python -m pytest tests/test_handlers.py -v

# Run with short output
python -m pytest tests/
```

Tests use an in-memory SQLite database and mock all external services (Telegram API, Google Photos API). No credentials or network access needed.

## Project Structure

```
telegramPhotos/
├── bot/
│   ├── __init__.py
│   ├── main.py              # Entry point, bot initialization
│   ├── config.py            # Environment variable loading & validation
│   ├── handlers.py          # Telegram message handlers (media sync, /link command, bot removal)
│   ├── media.py             # Media download with retry and size validation
│   ├── google_photos.py     # Google Photos API client (auth, albums, uploads, retry)
│   └── database.py          # SQLite operations (dedup, album cache, title tracking)
├── scripts/
│   ├── obtain_token.py      # One-time: get Google OAuth refresh token
│   └── logout_from_telegram_org.py  # One-time: move bot to local API server
├── tests/
│   ├── __init__.py
│   ├── conftest.py           # Shared test fixtures
│   ├── test_database.py
│   ├── test_google_photos.py
│   ├── test_handlers.py
│   └── test_media.py
├── pytest.ini
├── Dockerfile
├── docker-compose.yml
├── requirements.txt
├── .env.example
├── .gitignore
└── README.md
```

## Troubleshooting

### Bot doesn't respond to media in the group

- **Privacy mode**: make sure privacy mode is disabled (`/setprivacy` → Disabled in BotFather) or the bot has admin rights in the group.
- **Allowed groups**: if `ALLOWED_GROUP_IDS` is set, verify the group's chat ID is in the list.
- **Logs**: check `docker compose logs -f bot` for errors.

### "File too large" warnings in logs

The bot validates file sizes before download. Google Photos limits: **200 MB** for photos, **10 GB** for videos. Files exceeding these limits are skipped with a warning.

If you're hitting Telegram's 20 MB download limit, make sure the local Bot API server is running and the bot is logged out from the official API.

### Google Photos upload fails with 429

The Google Photos Library API has rate limits. The bot automatically retries with exponential backoff (starting at 30 seconds, up to 4 attempts). If uploads consistently fail:

- Check that your Google Cloud project hasn't exceeded its quota (Cloud Console → APIs & Services → Photos Library API → Quotas)
- Reduce the volume of media being sent in groups, or add a delay between messages

### "Configuration error" on startup

The bot validates all required environment variables at startup. Check that `.env` contains non-empty values for:

- `TELEGRAM_BOT_TOKEN`
- `GOOGLE_CLIENT_ID`
- `GOOGLE_CLIENT_SECRET`
- `GOOGLE_REFRESH_TOKEN`

### Token refresh fails

If the Google refresh token stops working:

1. Verify the Google Cloud project still exists and the Photos Library API is enabled
2. Check that your Google account is still listed as a test user (if the app is in "Testing" status)
3. Re-run `python scripts/obtain_token.py` to get a new refresh token

### Bot API server: "bot logged out" issues

After running `logout_from_telegram_org.py`, wait ~10 minutes before switching back to the official API. If you need to switch:

1. Stop the local Bot API server
2. Set `TELEGRAM_BOT_API_URL=` in `.env`
3. Wait 10 minutes
4. Restart the bot — it will use the official API

### Group renamed — old album stays

When a group is renamed, the bot creates a new album with the new name. Previously synced media remains in the old album. This is by design — the Google Photos Library API (with `appendonly` scope) does not support renaming albums.

### Sharing albums

Google removed the Photos Library API sharing endpoints (`albums.share`, `albums.unshare`, and the `photoslibrary.sharing` scope) on March 31, 2025. The bot cannot share albums programmatically.

To share an album:

1. Send `/link` in the group chat to get the album URL
2. Open the URL in a browser (you must be signed into the Google account that authorized the bot)
3. Click the **Share** button in Google Photos and send the link to whoever you want

**Important:** Sharing an album through the Google Photos UI may change the album's internal state in a way that breaks automatic sync. If sync stops working after sharing, check the logs for upload errors and try one of these fixes:

- **Unshare the album** in Google Photos to restore its original state
- **Clear the album cache** so the bot creates a fresh album on the next media message: stop the bot, open the SQLite database, and run `DELETE FROM album_cache WHERE group_title = '<your group name>';`, then restart

## License

MIT
